# {{ cookiecutter.project_name }}

{{ cookiecutter.project_short_description }}

This project contains source code and supporting files for a serverless application that you can deploy with the SAM CLI. It includes [Lambda Powertools for operational best practices](https://github.com/awslabs/aws-lambda-powertools-python), and the following files and folders.

- **`hello_world`** - Code for the application's Lambda function.
- **`events`** - Invocation events that you can use to invoke the function.
- **`tests`** - Unit tests for the application code. 
- **`template`.yaml** - A template that defines the application's AWS resources.

If you prefer to use an integrated development environment (IDE) to build and test your application, you can use the AWS Toolkit.  

* [VS Code](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/toolkit-for-vscode/latest/userguide/welcome.html)
* [PyCharm](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/toolkit-for-jetbrains/latest/userguide/welcome.html)
* [IntelliJ](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/toolkit-for-jetbrains/latest/userguide/welcome.html)
* [Visual Studio](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/toolkit-for-visual-studio/latest/user-guide/welcome.html)

## Requirements

**Make sure you have the following installed before you proceed**

* AWS CLI - [Install AWS CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-install.html) configured with Administrator permission
* SAM CLI - [Install the SAM CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-sam-cli-install.html)
* [Python 3 installed](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
* Docker - [Install Docker community edition](https://hub.docker.com/search/?type=edition&offering=community)
* [Pipenv installed](https://github.com/pypa/pipenv) - `pip install pipenv`

## Deploy the sample application

{% if cookiecutter.include_experimental_make == "y" %}
As you've chosen the experimental Makefile we can use Make to automate Packaging and Building steps as follows:

```bash
        ...::: Installs all required packages as defined in the Pipfile :::...
        make install

        ...::: Run Pytest under tests/ with pipenv :::...
        make test

        ...::: Creates local dev environment for Python hot-reloading w/ packages:::...
        make build SERVICE="first_function"

        ...::: Run SAM Local API Gateway :::...
        make run

        # or

        ...::: Run SAM Invoke Function :::...
        make invoke SERVICE="FirstFunction" EVENT="events/first_function_event.json"
```
{% endif %}

To build and deploy your application for the first time, run the following in your shell:

```bash
{{ cookiecutter.project_name }}$ sam build --use-container
{{ cookiecutter.project_name }}$ sam deploy --guided
```

The first command will **build** the source of your application within a Docker container. The second command will **package and deploy** your application to AWS, with a series of prompts asking you about the name of the CloudFormation Stack, AWS Region, and whether you want SAM CLI to save your choices so you can use `sam deploy` next time.

## Use the SAM CLI to build and test locally

Build your application dependencies with `sam build --use-container` command.

```bash
{{ cookiecutter.project_name }}$ sam build --use-container
```

The SAM CLI installs dependencies defined in `hello_world/requirements.txt`, creates a deployment package, and saves it in the `.aws-sam/build` folder.

Test a single function by invoking it directly with a test event. An event is a JSON document that represents the input that the function receives from the event source. Test events are included in the `events` folder in this project.

Run functions locally and invoke them with the `sam local invoke` command.

```bash
{{ cookiecutter.project_name }}$ sam local invoke HelloWorldFunction --event events/hello_world_event.json
```

The SAM CLI can also emulate your application's API. Use the `sam local start-api` to run the API locally on port 3000.

```bash
{{ cookiecutter.project_name }}$ sam local start-api
{{ cookiecutter.project_name }}$ curl http://localhost:3000/hello
```

The SAM CLI reads the application template to determine the API's routes and the functions that they invoke. The `Events` property on each function's definition includes the route and method for each path.

```yaml
      Events:
        HelloWorld:
          Type: Api
          Properties:
            Path: /hello
            Method: get
```

## Fetch, tail, and filter Lambda function logs

To simplify troubleshooting, SAM CLI has a command called `sam logs`. `sam logs` lets you fetch logs generated by your deployed Lambda function from the command line. In addition to printing the logs on the terminal, this command has several nifty features to help you quickly find the bug.

`NOTE`: This command works for all AWS Lambda functions; not just the ones you deploy using SAM.

```bash
{{ cookiecutter.project_name }}$ sam logs -n HelloWorldFunction --stack-name sam-python --tail
```

You can find more information and examples about filtering Lambda function logs in the [SAM CLI Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-sam-cli-logging.html).

## Unit tests

Tests are defined in the `tests` folder in this project - Use Pipenv to install dev dependencies and to run unit tests

{% if cookiecutter.include_experimental_make == "y" %}
```bash
{{ cookiecutter.project_name }}$ pipenv install -d
{{ cookiecutter.project_name }}$ make test
```
{% else %}
```bash
{{ cookiecutter.project_name }}$ pipenv install -d
{{ cookiecutter.project_name }}$ POWERTOOLS_TRACE_DISABLED=1 pipenv run python -m pytest tests/ -v
```
{% endif %}

## Cleanup

To delete the sample application that you created, use the AWS CLI. Assuming you used your project name for the stack name, you can run the following:

```bash
{{ cookiecutter.project_name }}$ aws cloudformation delete-stack --stack-name {{ cookiecutter.project_name }}
```

## Powertools

**Tracing**

[Tracer utility](https://awslabs.github.io/aws-lambda-powertools-python/core/tracer/) to patch and trace the execution of this sample code, including metadata.

**Logger**

[Logger utility](https://awslabs.github.io/aws-lambda-powertools-python/core/logger/) creates an opinionated application Logger with structured logging as the output, dynamically samples 10% of your logs in DEBUG mode for concurrent invocations, log incoming events as your function is invoked, and injects key information from Lambda context object into your Logger.

**Metrics**

[Metrics utility](https://awslabs.github.io/aws-lambda-powertools-python/core/metrics/) captures cold start metric of your Lambda invocation, and could add additional metrics to help you understand your application KPIs.

# Appendix

{% if cookiecutter.include_experimental_make == "y" %}
## Makefile

It is important that the Makefile created only works on OSX/Linux but the tasks above can easily be turned into a Powershell or any scripting language you may want too.

The following make targets will automate that we went through above:

* Find all available targets: `make`
* Install all deps and clone (OS hard link) our lambda function to `/build`: `make build SERVICE="first_function"`
    - `SERVICE="first_function"` tells Make to start the building process from there
    - By creating a hard link we no longer need to keep copying our app over to Build and keeps it tidy and clean
* Run `Pytest` against all tests found under `tests` folder: `make test`
* Install all deps and builds a ZIP file ready to be deployed: `make package SERVICE="first_function"`
    - You can also build deps and a ZIP file within a Docker Lambda container: `make package SERVICE="first_function" DOCKER=1`
    - **This is particularly useful when using C-extensions that if built on your OS may not work when deployed to Lambda (different OS)**
{% endif %}

## Sync project with function dependencies

Pipenv takes care of isolating dev dependencies and app dependencies. As SAM CLI requires a `requirements.txt` file, you'd need to generate one if new app dependencies have been added:

```bash
{{ cookiecutter.project_name }}$ pipenv lock -r > hello_world/requirements.txt
```
